REFEREE REPORT(S):
Referee: 1

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)
The authors propose the universal scaling law of the ionization cross 
sections by the impact of multiply charged atomic ions on the basis of 
the experimental data reported in their very recent publication 
[J. Phys. B, 53, 055201 (2020)]. Their conclusion of this newly 
submitted paper is that they found the scaling law of Eq. (1) with the 
alpha value of 1.2. However, as the authors mention in the introduction 
part, the same scaling law with the alpha value of 4/3 = 1.333 was 
reported in 2013 by DuBois et al. [Ref. 15].

The authors should explain if the scaling with alpha = 4/3, which is 
very close to their value of 1.2, could not explain the experimental 
data they recorded. If the value of 1.2 is much better than 1.333, the 
author should explain possible reason why alpha should be 1.2 on the 
basis of the physical meaning of the parameter alpha.


Referee: 2

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)
The authors propose a scaling formula for cross sections for ionization 
of complex molecules by multiply charged ions. Such cross sections are 
required, e.g.,  for estimating radiation damage in biomolecules. A 
routine ab-initio calculation of such cross sections by quantum methods 
is byond reach of the state-of-the-arts methods. In this situation, it 
is helpful to have semi-empirical scaling formulas for modeling purposes. 
Thus, the paper is timely and serves a need. It is concise. However, 
there are some language issues. The paper should eventually be published 
as a JPB letter after the authors having adequately responded to my 
detailed points below.

1) page1, line 11: " ... from +1 to +8 colliding with five ..."

2) page 1, line 14: " ... fourty ..."

3) page 1, line 26: " ... continuum distorted-wave ..."

4) page 1, line 42: "... first order approximation in experimental ..."

5) page 1, line 53: I do not see how any value fo alpha keeps the Z^2/E 
relationship? alpha = 1.2 results in Z^0.8/E.

6) page 1, line 20, column 2: "... fourty ..."

7) page 1, line 24,, column 2: " ... and five ion species: ..."

8) Figure captions. Both caption should mention that all plots are for 
alpha=1.2.

9)   page 2, line 40, column 2: How broad is the "narrow band"? The 
authors should supply some estimate for the uncertainty of the scaling 
formula. I consider this very important.



Referee: 3

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)
Please see report attached.

Letter reference: DSMa01

This paper tries to obtain a scaling law for ionization of some 
biological molecules by highly charged ions. As is well known, such 
processes are quite relevant and important in medical physics. Since 
the molecules considered are complex, formal theories of ionization are
difficult to apply and scaling laws, if found applicable, greatly 
simplify the process of obtaining reliable cross sections. In this 
respect the present paper is quite significant. The authors have 
proposed a scaling law and have applied it to several bio molecules and
have tried to extend and justify the validity of the scaling law by 
including results for N2, O2, CO, CO2 and CH4 to show they have the 
same scaling behaviour. However, there are several aspects of the paper 
which I either do not understand clearly, or have reservations. 

1. The authors mention σ to be a function of E/Z. But the functional 
form is nowhere mentioned in the paper. What is the functional 
dependence on E/Z the authors consider in the work?

2. I have reservations in calling the scaling law developed a universal 
scaling law. Not only have the authors considered only 8 molecular 
targets and five incident ions, the results, as the authors claim, are 
applicable only around the maximum of the cross sections. Though this 
may be reasonable for practical purposes, in my opinion, the results 
are in too narrow range for calling it a universal scaling law. I would 
recommend dropping the word universal everywhere in the paper.

3. Figure 1 somehow needs to be improved or made larger, because it is 
very difficult to gauge the deviation of the experimental points from 
the curves. Is it possible to separate the figure in to two figures 
(eg. top four Figure 1, bottom four Figure 2)?

4. Figure captions need to be significantly improved as it is difficult 
to read and correlate the legend descriptions with those in the figure. 
For the caption in Figure 2, it is not clear what the CDW-SSM 
theoretical results represent ? What is the target molecule considered?

5. The language should be considerably improved as there are many 
unusual statements.

Some examples:
(i) Page 1 Column 2, Lines 40-44: “However, the data of uracil by swift 
C, O and F ions in [22, 23] are too low compared with our CDW–SSM 
results, but also as compared with Itoh et al. data [17], and with the 
CTMC calculations by Sarkadi [34]” Incidentally, the data of Ref. [34] 
is not shown on the figure.

(ii) Page 2 Line 56 : “In Fig. 2, we test the universal scaling of 
Eq. (2) for all the theoretical and experimental values displayed in 
Fig. 1.”

6. There are many typographical errors. For example, Page 1, line 26 
“continue” should be “continuum”. Page 1, Line 33 “present” should be 
“follow”. There are also others. 

The paper, though quite interesting and contains valuable results, 
needs to be considerabley revised. I therefore recommend a major 
revision.



